# Addrinfo < Data

(from ruby core)
---

The Addrinfo class maps `struct addrinfo` to ruby.  This structure identifies
an Internet host and a service.
---
# Class methods:

    foreach
    getaddrinfo
    ip
    new
    tcp
    udp
    unix

# Instance methods:

    afamily
    bind
    canonname
    connect
    connect_from
    connect_internal
    connect_to
    family_addrinfo
    getnameinfo
    inspect
    inspect_sockaddr
    ip?
    ip_address
    ip_port
    ip_unpack
    ipv4?
    ipv4_loopback?
    ipv4_multicast?
    ipv4_private?
    ipv6?
    ipv6_linklocal?
    ipv6_loopback?
    ipv6_mc_global?
    ipv6_mc_linklocal?
    ipv6_mc_nodelocal?
    ipv6_mc_orglocal?
    ipv6_mc_sitelocal?
    ipv6_multicast?
    ipv6_sitelocal?
    ipv6_to_ipv4
    ipv6_unique_local?
    ipv6_unspecified?
    ipv6_v4compat?
    ipv6_v4mapped?
    listen
    pfamily
    protocol
    socktype
    to_s
    to_sockaddr
    unix?
    unix_path

# Addrinfo::foreach

(from ruby core)
---
    foreach(nodename, service, family=nil, socktype=nil, protocol=nil, flags=nil, &block)

---

iterates over the list of Addrinfo objects obtained by Addrinfo.getaddrinfo.

    Addrinfo.foreach(nil, 80) {|x| p x }
    #=> #<Addrinfo: 127.0.0.1:80 TCP (:80)>
    #   #<Addrinfo: 127.0.0.1:80 UDP (:80)>
    #   #<Addrinfo: [::1]:80 TCP (:80)>
    #   #<Addrinfo: [::1]:80 UDP (:80)>


# Addrinfo::getaddrinfo

(from ruby core)
---
    Addrinfo.getaddrinfo(nodename, service, family, socktype, protocol, flags) => [addrinfo, ...]
    Addrinfo.getaddrinfo(nodename, service, family, socktype, protocol)        => [addrinfo, ...]
    Addrinfo.getaddrinfo(nodename, service, family, socktype)                  => [addrinfo, ...]
    Addrinfo.getaddrinfo(nodename, service, family)                            => [addrinfo, ...]
    Addrinfo.getaddrinfo(nodename, service)                                    => [addrinfo, ...]

---

returns a list of addrinfo objects as an array.

This method converts nodename (hostname) and service (port) to addrinfo. Since
the conversion is not unique, the result is a list of addrinfo objects.

nodename or service can be nil if no conversion intended.

family, socktype and protocol are hint for preferred protocol. If the result
will be used for a socket with SOCK_STREAM, SOCK_STREAM should be specified as
socktype. If so, Addrinfo.getaddrinfo returns addrinfo list appropriate for
SOCK_STREAM. If they are omitted or nil is given, the result is not
restricted.

Similarly, PF_INET6 as family restricts for IPv6.

flags should be bitwise OR of Socket::AI_??? constants such as follows. Note
that the exact list of the constants depends on OS.

    AI_PASSIVE      Get address to use with bind()
    AI_CANONNAME    Fill in the canonical name
    AI_NUMERICHOST  Prevent host name resolution
    AI_NUMERICSERV  Prevent service name resolution
    AI_V4MAPPED     Accept IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses
    AI_ALL          Allow all addresses
    AI_ADDRCONFIG   Accept only if any address is assigned

Note that socktype should be specified whenever application knows the usage of
the address. Some platform causes an error when socktype is omitted and
servname is specified as an integer because some port numbers, 512 for
example, are ambiguous without socktype.

    Addrinfo.getaddrinfo("www.kame.net", 80, nil, :STREAM)
    #=> [#<Addrinfo: 203.178.141.194:80 TCP (www.kame.net)>,
    #    #<Addrinfo: [2001:200:dff:fff1:216:3eff:feb1:44d7]:80 TCP (www.kame.net)>]


# Addrinfo::ip

(from ruby core)
---
    Addrinfo.ip(host) => addrinfo

---

returns an addrinfo object for IP address.

The port, socktype, protocol of the result is filled by zero. So, it is not
appropriate to create a socket.

    Addrinfo.ip("localhost") #=> #<Addrinfo: 127.0.0.1 (localhost)>


# Addrinfo::new

(from ruby core)
---
    Addrinfo.new(sockaddr)                             => addrinfo
    Addrinfo.new(sockaddr, family)                     => addrinfo
    Addrinfo.new(sockaddr, family, socktype)           => addrinfo
    Addrinfo.new(sockaddr, family, socktype, protocol) => addrinfo

---

returns a new instance of Addrinfo. The instance contains sockaddr, family,
socktype, protocol. sockaddr means struct sockaddr which can be used for
connect(2), etc. family, socktype and protocol are integers which is used for
arguments of socket(2).

sockaddr is specified as an array or a string. The array should be compatible
to the value of IPSocket#addr or UNIXSocket#addr. The string should be struct
sockaddr as generated by Socket.sockaddr_in or Socket.unpack_sockaddr_un.

sockaddr examples:

    "AF_INET", 46102, "localhost.localdomain", "127.0.0.1"
:       

    "AF_INET6", 42304, "ip6-localhost", "::1"
:       

    "AF_UNIX", "/tmp/sock"
:       
*   Socket.sockaddr_in("smtp", "2001:DB8::1")
*   Socket.sockaddr_in(80, "172.18.22.42")
*   Socket.sockaddr_in(80, "www.ruby-lang.org")
*   Socket.sockaddr_un("/tmp/sock")


In an AF_INET/AF_INET6 sockaddr array, the 4th element, numeric IP address, is
used to construct socket address in the Addrinfo instance. If the 3rd element,
textual host name, is non-nil, it is also recorded but used only for
Addrinfo#inspect.

family is specified as an integer to specify the protocol family such as
Socket::PF_INET. It can be a symbol or a string which is the constant name
with or without PF_ prefix such as :INET, :INET6, :UNIX, "PF_INET", etc. If
omitted, PF_UNSPEC is assumed.

socktype is specified as an integer to specify the socket type such as
Socket::SOCK_STREAM. It can be a symbol or a string which is the constant name
with or without SOCK_ prefix such as :STREAM, :DGRAM, :RAW, "SOCK_STREAM",
etc. If omitted, 0 is assumed.

protocol is specified as an integer to specify the protocol such as
Socket::IPPROTO_TCP. It must be an integer, unlike family and socktype. If
omitted, 0 is assumed. Note that 0 is reasonable value for most protocols,
except raw socket.


# Addrinfo::tcp

(from ruby core)
---
    Addrinfo.tcp(host, port) => addrinfo

---

returns an addrinfo object for TCP address.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", "smtp") #=> #<Addrinfo: 127.0.0.1:25 TCP (localhost:smtp)>


# Addrinfo::udp

(from ruby core)
---
    Addrinfo.udp(host, port) => addrinfo

---

returns an addrinfo object for UDP address.

    Addrinfo.udp("localhost", "daytime") #=> #<Addrinfo: 127.0.0.1:13 UDP (localhost:daytime)>


# Addrinfo::unix

(from ruby core)
---
    Addrinfo.unix(path [, socktype]) => addrinfo

---

returns an addrinfo object for UNIX socket address.

*socktype* specifies the socket type. If it is omitted, :STREAM is used.

    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock")         #=> #<Addrinfo: /tmp/sock SOCK_STREAM>
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock", :DGRAM) #=> #<Addrinfo: /tmp/sock SOCK_DGRAM>


# Addrinfo#afamily

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.afamily => integer

---

returns the address family as an integer.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).afamily == Socket::AF_INET #=> true


# Addrinfo#bind

(from ruby core)
---
    bind() { |sock| ... }

---

creates a socket bound to self.

If a block is given, it is called with the socket and the value of the block
is returned. The socket is returned otherwise.

    Addrinfo.udp("0.0.0.0", 9981).bind {|s|
      s.local_address.connect {|s| s.send "hello", 0 }
      p s.recv(10) #=> "hello"
    }


# Addrinfo#canonname

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.canonname => string or nil

---

returns the canonical name as an string.

nil is returned if no canonical name.

The canonical name is set by Addrinfo.getaddrinfo when AI_CANONNAME is
specified.

    list = Addrinfo.getaddrinfo("www.ruby-lang.org", 80, :INET, :STREAM, nil, Socket::AI_CANONNAME)
    p list[0] #=> #<Addrinfo: 221.186.184.68:80 TCP carbon.ruby-lang.org (www.ruby-lang.org)>
    p list[0].canonname #=> "carbon.ruby-lang.org"


# Addrinfo#connect

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.connect([opts]) {|socket| ... }
    addrinfo.connect([opts])

---

creates a socket connected to the address of self.

The optional argument *opts* is options represented by a hash. *opts* may have
following options:

:timeout
:   specify the timeout in seconds.


If a block is given, it is called with the socket and the value of the block
is returned. The socket is returned otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("www.ruby-lang.org", 80).connect {|s|
      s.print "GET / HTTP/1.0\r\nHost: www.ruby-lang.org\r\n\r\n"
      puts s.read
    }


# Addrinfo#connect_from

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.connect_from([local_addr_args], [opts]) {|socket| ... }
    addrinfo.connect_from([local_addr_args], [opts])

---

creates a socket connected to the address of self.

If one or more arguments given as *local_addr_args*, it is used as the local
address of the socket. *local_addr_args* is given for family_addrinfo to
obtain actual address.

If *local_addr_args* is not given, the local address of the socket is not
bound.

The optional last argument *opts* is options represented by a hash. *opts* may
have following options:

:timeout
:   specify the timeout in seconds.


If a block is given, it is called with the socket and the value of the block
is returned. The socket is returned otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("www.ruby-lang.org", 80).connect_from("0.0.0.0", 4649) {|s|
      s.print "GET / HTTP/1.0\r\nHost: www.ruby-lang.org\r\n\r\n"
      puts s.read
    }

    # Addrinfo object can be taken for the argument.
    Addrinfo.tcp("www.ruby-lang.org", 80).connect_from(Addrinfo.tcp("0.0.0.0", 4649)) {|s|
      s.print "GET / HTTP/1.0\r\nHost: www.ruby-lang.org\r\n\r\n"
      puts s.read
    }


# Addrinfo#connect_to

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.connect_to([remote_addr_args], [opts]) {|socket| ... }
    addrinfo.connect_to([remote_addr_args], [opts])

---

creates a socket connected to *remote_addr_args* and bound to self.

The optional last argument *opts* is options represented by a hash. *opts* may
have following options:

:timeout
:   specify the timeout in seconds.


If a block is given, it is called with the socket and the value of the block
is returned. The socket is returned otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("0.0.0.0", 4649).connect_to("www.ruby-lang.org", 80) {|s|
      s.print "GET / HTTP/1.0\r\nHost: www.ruby-lang.org\r\n\r\n"
      puts s.read
    }


# Addrinfo#family_addrinfo

(from ruby core)
---
    family_addrinfo(*args)

---

creates an Addrinfo object from the arguments.

The arguments are interpreted as similar to self.

    Addrinfo.tcp("0.0.0.0", 4649).family_addrinfo("www.ruby-lang.org", 80)
    #=> #<Addrinfo: 221.186.184.68:80 TCP (www.ruby-lang.org:80)>

    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").family_addrinfo("/tmp/sock2")
    #=> #<Addrinfo: /tmp/sock2 SOCK_STREAM>


# Addrinfo#getnameinfo

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.getnameinfo        => [nodename, service]
    addrinfo.getnameinfo(flags) => [nodename, service]

---

returns nodename and service as a pair of strings. This converts struct
sockaddr in addrinfo to textual representation.

flags should be bitwise OR of Socket::NI_??? constants.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).getnameinfo #=> ["localhost", "www"]

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).getnameinfo(Socket::NI_NUMERICSERV)
    #=> ["localhost", "80"]


# Addrinfo#inspect

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.inspect => string

---

returns a string which shows addrinfo in human-readable form.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).inspect #=> "#<Addrinfo: 127.0.0.1:80 TCP (localhost)>"
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").inspect    #=> "#<Addrinfo: /tmp/sock SOCK_STREAM>"


# Addrinfo#inspect_sockaddr

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.inspect_sockaddr => string

---

returns a string which shows the sockaddr in *addrinfo* with human-readable
form.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).inspect_sockaddr     #=> "127.0.0.1:80"
    Addrinfo.tcp("ip6-localhost", 80).inspect_sockaddr #=> "[::1]:80"
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").inspect_sockaddr        #=> "/tmp/sock"


# Addrinfo#ip?

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.ip? => true or false

---

returns true if addrinfo is internet (IPv4/IPv6) address. returns false
otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).ip? #=> true
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).ip?       #=> true
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").ip?    #=> false


# Addrinfo#ip_address

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.ip_address => string

---

Returns the IP address as a string.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).ip_address    #=> "127.0.0.1"
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).ip_address          #=> "::1"


# Addrinfo#ip_port

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.ip_port => port

---

Returns the port number as an integer.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).ip_port    #=> 80
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).ip_port          #=> 80


# Addrinfo#ip_unpack

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.ip_unpack => [addr, port]

---

Returns the IP address and port number as 2-element array.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).ip_unpack    #=> ["127.0.0.1", 80]
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).ip_unpack          #=> ["::1", 80]


# Addrinfo#ipv4?

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.ipv4? => true or false

---

returns true if addrinfo is IPv4 address. returns false otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).ipv4? #=> true
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).ipv4?       #=> false
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").ipv4?    #=> false


# Addrinfo#ipv4_loopback?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv4_loopback?()

---

Returns true for IPv4 loopback address (127.0.0.0/8). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv4_multicast?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv4_multicast?()

---

Returns true for IPv4 multicast address (224.0.0.0/4). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv4_private?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv4_private?()

---

Returns true for IPv4 private address (10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12,
192.168.0.0/16). It returns false otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6?

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.ipv6? => true or false

---

returns true if addrinfo is IPv6 address. returns false otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).ipv6? #=> false
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).ipv6?       #=> true
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").ipv6?    #=> false


# Addrinfo#ipv6_linklocal?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_linklocal?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 link local address (ff80::/10). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_loopback?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_loopback?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 loopback address (::1). It returns false otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_mc_global?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_mc_global?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 multicast global scope address. It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_mc_linklocal?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_mc_linklocal?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 multicast link-local scope address. It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_mc_nodelocal?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_mc_nodelocal?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 multicast node-local scope address. It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_mc_orglocal?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_mc_orglocal?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 multicast organization-local scope address. It returns
false otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_mc_sitelocal?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_mc_sitelocal?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 multicast site-local scope address. It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_multicast?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_multicast?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 multicast address (ff00::/8). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_sitelocal?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_sitelocal?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 site local address (ffc0::/10). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_to_ipv4

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_to_ipv4()

---

Returns IPv4 address of IPv4 mapped/compatible IPv6 address. It returns nil if
`self` is not IPv4 mapped/compatible IPv6 address.

    Addrinfo.ip("::192.0.2.3").ipv6_to_ipv4      #=> #<Addrinfo: 192.0.2.3>
    Addrinfo.ip("::ffff:192.0.2.3").ipv6_to_ipv4 #=> #<Addrinfo: 192.0.2.3>
    Addrinfo.ip("::1").ipv6_to_ipv4              #=> nil
    Addrinfo.ip("192.0.2.3").ipv6_to_ipv4        #=> nil
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").ipv6_to_ipv4      #=> nil


# Addrinfo#ipv6_unique_local?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_unique_local?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 unique local address (fc00::/7, RFC4193). It returns
false otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_unspecified?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_unspecified?()

---

Returns true for IPv6 unspecified address (::). It returns false otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_v4compat?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_v4compat?()

---

Returns true for IPv4-compatible IPv6 address (::/80). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#ipv6_v4mapped?

(from ruby core)
---
    ipv6_v4mapped?()

---

Returns true for IPv4-mapped IPv6 address (::ffff:0:0/80). It returns false
otherwise.


# Addrinfo#listen

(from ruby core)
---
    listen(backlog=Socket::SOMAXCONN) { |sock| ... }

---

creates a listening socket bound to self.


# Addrinfo#pfamily

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.pfamily => integer

---

returns the protocol family as an integer.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).pfamily == Socket::PF_INET #=> true


# Addrinfo#protocol

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.protocol => integer

---

returns the socket type as an integer.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).protocol == Socket::IPPROTO_TCP #=> true


# Addrinfo#socktype

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.socktype => integer

---

returns the socket type as an integer.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).socktype == Socket::SOCK_STREAM #=> true


# Addrinfo#to_s

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.to_sockaddr => string
    addrinfo.to_s => string

---

returns the socket address as packed struct sockaddr string.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).to_sockaddr
    #=> "\x02\x00\x00P\x7F\x00\x00\x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00"


# Addrinfo#to_sockaddr

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.to_sockaddr => string

---

returns the socket address as packed struct sockaddr string.

    Addrinfo.tcp("localhost", 80).to_sockaddr
    #=> "\x02\x00\x00P\x7F\x00\x00\x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00"


# Addrinfo#unix?

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.unix? => true or false

---

returns true if addrinfo is UNIX address. returns false otherwise.

    Addrinfo.tcp("127.0.0.1", 80).unix? #=> false
    Addrinfo.tcp("::1", 80).unix?       #=> false
    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").unix?    #=> true


# Addrinfo#unix_path

(from ruby core)
---
    addrinfo.unix_path => path

---

Returns the socket path as a string.

    Addrinfo.unix("/tmp/sock").unix_path       #=> "/tmp/sock"


# Addrinfo#connect_internal

(from ruby core)
---
    connect_internal(local_addrinfo, timeout=nil) { |socket| ... }

---

creates a new Socket connected to the address of `local_addrinfo`.

If *local_addrinfo* is nil, the address of the socket is not bound.

The *timeout* specify the seconds for timeout. Errno::ETIMEDOUT is raised when
timeout occur.

If a block is given the created socket is yielded for each address.


